and life probably looked like most other people that age of like having a good career, it looked good on the outside.
But on the inside, it was all how I can't even describe how empty it felt.
Like there was just this part of me that was missing, that I was filling with something else, and that was alcohol.
I wanted to feel filled.
I wanted to feel the joy that came with life.
That's what I was wanting.
It's really like a true sense of being filled with joy and peace.
On the outside, alcohol looks like it does that, but the reality of it is totally different.
I knew I would never be the dad I wanted to be doing what I was doing.
Like there's no way that the way I was living my life in this lie was gonna produce any good fruit with my children.
My first visit to River Valley Church, my wife and I were invited, and I walked in the doors, and I knew there was something different at the moment I walked in.
I also introduced the Minnesota Adult and Teen Challenge Choir.
I knew that it was a faith-based treatment program.
I remember thinking to myself, I wonder if I'll be there someday.
And I think at the time I knew what the answer was gonna be.
It was just a matter of when.
When you're sitting at that point and you're facing an addiction, you're just scared of what the other side looks like.
And I was really scared of what it looked like.
What was life without that?
What are other people gonna think of me?
Like, if I go to treatment, what's the stigma attached with that?
What are people gonna say?
It is like you make up every reason why not to do it.
A few years it went by, and my wife decided she wanted to go on a
a global team to Ethiopia.
And while she was gone, I would call my rock bottom.
I describe it as the first time I really felt godly sorrow for what I was doing.
My wife was halfway around the world and she was pregnant with our second child.
And here I was a complete disaster.
And I knew that it was now or never.
She came back and I just said, I want to go to a Minnesota adult team challenge.
That is it.
It was a pretty simple conversation.
It was probably two weeks later, they do it like an intake.
And the nurse, she's like, normally, I would be sending you off to a detox facility.
I would not be able to admit you at this time, just because we're concerned about you medically.
But she looked at me and she said, I can see in your eyes that your heart's ready to be here.
And I'm going to let you in.
The first week is what they call the blackout period.
And you're not allowed any communication from the outside.
And I remember the first time I was able to have visitors.
I looked down the hallway, and I see my son running down the hallway with both his hands up in the air, just with the biggest smile on his face.
All of a sudden, my wife
I turned the corner and here she's just radiant coming down the hallway right after it instantly was right there that I'm never going back.
It was like that was the dead stop.
God, whatever you have to do in me, I am ready.
Like you have to have that moment and that was that moment.
So after I left, they always say it's not gonna be the same.
Yeah, and it certainly wasn't.
ended up leaving my job, but also starting my own business as a sign-maker.
I've been blessed with more of like more freedom to do and to serve and spend more time with my family and do the things that God has put me here to do.
I've never heard anybody say I had too much time with my dad and I never want to have them have that void in their life of not having me there.
I was in the short term program for 30 days.
During my wrap up, if you will, or what they call your graduation, the counselor always speaks last.
He looked at me and he said, Lucas, I was praying this morning, and the only thing I have for you is God's got you.
That's all he told me to say to you, I got you.
And that's all I need, is the most simple and default phrase I can fall back on.
I got this.
Let's give God praise for that testimony from Lucas.
And I'm going to invite the choir to come on up and while they're making their way up to the stage, get ready.
I love that.
Lucas, a part of our Shakopee campus, his life was changed by the power of Jesus Christ, assisted by one of our kingdom builders partners that we've been partners with for a long time Minnesota Adult and Teen Challenge.
And we're about to hear songs to be ministered to.
We're about to hear live testimonies in the room.
And I just want to remind every person here that God brought you here for a reason.
that you might be sitting in these seats.
There might be people this weekend that are watching online and they are the pre-testimony, like Lucas saying, I think this might be me.
I think this is the moment.
I think I need the boldness of the Holy Spirit to confess, to get it out there to say, I need help.
And the only way I can find the help is in Jesus Christ and going to Minnesota Adult and Teen Challenge.
And so pay attention, lean in, listen, God brought you here for a reason.
And at the end of this service, you're gonna have an opportunity
to participate in praying and signing up to be a mentor to participate in financial giving.
This year we are again partnering with Minnesota Adult and Teen Challenge and supporting them as one of our Kingdom Builders partners.
You're gonna hear more about that in just a moment.
Now we got a big choir.
This is about to be awesome.
We're so grateful that you're here and as you're listening,
of how the Lord might minister to your spirit.
Would you also, while they're singing and sharing testimonies, would you be praying for each one of these men?
Each one of them, God is doing a supernatural work.
And at this time, I'm gonna introduce the man who leads this and helps oversee this.
And can you welcome to the platform?
He's gonna share a lot more about Minnesota Adult and Teen Challenge.
Can you welcome Rich Sherber?
Thank you.
Come on, let's welcome them.
The floor is yours.
Thank you guys.
God bless you.
We're going to have Kim come up and Kim works with us and she's going to talk real quick how some volunteer opportunities for Teen Challenge.
Good evening church.
We are absolutely thrilled to be with you and can I just say I love your worship.
That was alive and intense and quite inviting.
You are in for such a treat this evening and that is the very reason that I've been with Minnesota Deltantine Challenge for 22 years.
It's these incredible clients.
So as the recruiting manager for the organization, let me tell you, it is an amazing and incredible and life-giving place to work to volunteer or to mentor.
You don't have to take my word for it.
The Star Tribune for the third year in a row has named Minnesota Adult and Tea Challenge, a regional top workplace.
And this past year, 2021, we were named a national top workplace.
It is a place.
It is a place that is alive with mission and the heartbeat of what we do is these clients that you're gonna hear from shortly.
So if you have ever thought about maybe possibly changing careers and thought about working for Minnesota Adult and Teen Challenge or volunteering or mentoring, we need mentors.
In fact, let me show you.
How many of you Hudson House are still looking for need and want a mentor?
Please raise your hand.
Raise it high.
Okay, definitive needs.
So we're not looking for perfect people.
You don't have to have a previous story of addiction.
We just want people who love to love other people.
And so I will be in the main lobby after service.
Again, if you ever thought about working, volunteering, mentoring, please come see me.
I will stay after and love to talk to any one of you who's thought about getting involved.
So I look forward to seeing you afterwards.
Thank you.
Thank you so much.
I just want to thank you so much for having Teen Challenge this weekend and we love River Valley.
We love Pastor Rob and you guys have been very important partners of this ministry for many years.
How many know that this ministry is needed now more than ever?
If you read the front page of the Star Tribune yesterday, you notice that during COVID,
We had another huge surge of addiction actually in 2018-2019.
The US government called this the worst drug epidemic in US history and then came COVID.
And last year there was a 30% increase nationwide of drug overdoses.
That's a total of 93,000 people, US citizens that died of a drug overdose.
This is a major epidemic
It's interesting that Newsweek magazine last August highlighted every single issue of Newsweek and Time magazine was all about COVID and they decided in August to talk about the second epidemic and it's called, you can see it here, the other epidemic and what they, every single article in the magazine talked about how bad drug addiction is during COVID.
But what they did is they highlighted
They basically hired a company that looks at successful medical models across the country in the most successful hospitals, most successful doctors, the most successful clinics.
And they decided to hire them to look at the most successful treatment programs across America.
And they chose 20 states across the U.S. that had the most addiction treatment programs, Minnesota being one of them.
And they looked at the top 10% most successful treatment programs, and it was no surprise that the Hazleton Betty Ford Center made the three of the top 10 programs.
And the second runner-up of the three of the best programs of the top 10 in the state out of hundreds of licensed treatment programs was Minnesota Delta and Team Challenge.
We made it in here.
This program works, you're going to hear it, and I'll tell you what, the whole 12 step is built on the higher power, and how many know there is no higher power than Jesus.
Amen.
So we're going to talk about that this evening, and God bless you, River Valley, for being such an important partner of this ministry.
The first song we're going to sing is Chain Breaker.
If you know it, join with us.
Say more of miles and miles You've been hearing the same old voice, still the same old lies If you're trying to feel the same old holes inside There's a better light There's a better light
I guess he gave me my story a little bit about... Well, since I've been here, God's restored my mental health.
He's brought joy back into my heart.
My spirit is alive and well, and the Holy Spirit is within me right now, and I'm just so thankful to God.
Praise the God.
Yeah, I've been really blessed since my time being here, but I'll just give you my backstory.
I grew up in a really broken home.
There was a lot of addiction.
Both of my parents are addicts.
My mom is a heroin addict, and my dad is a meth addict.
Right now, my dad is in prison for another crime.
He's been in prison my entire life, off and on, so I don't really know him very well.
But I grew up in an abusive household.
physical and mental and emotional abuse I was told every day that I was a mistake and that I was worthless and I was garbage and I was beaten very badly on the daily basis and there was prostitution and drug dealing and all sorts of just unhealthiness and I grew up with that hole inside of me you know I just for a long time I believed that I was worthless and
that I wasn't good for anything or worthy of love.
And I started drinking.
I drink my first beer at the age of, I think about three.
And I really took off at the age of 16.
I started drinking in high school and I just fell in love with the way it made me feel like that guy in the video said.
That feeling of joy, I had been searching after the joy and peace
because I was just played with depression and suicidal thoughts and Self-harm my entire life and I just wanted it to go away.
So I started drinking and I really took off and I I really flourished at it and it got to the point where I hit rock bottom I lost everything I had no no one to know no one to call or to
to ask for help.
I was very lonely and I was homeless sleeping on park benches and at bus stops and I weighed about 200 pounds right now at the time.
I was weighing 130.
I couldn't, I was, yeah.
And I just given up on life and the miraculous thing, I had went to Sunday school as a kid
And I just never believed it because I thought what kind of God would put me through what I've been through.
But I had had a really rock bottom day and I had pretty much given up and I've tried killing myself three times in my life and I'm still here today.
But I walked into oncoming traffic and did not get hit by a car.
I made it to the other side of the road.
My legs just stopped working and I fell into the gutter and I had a trash bag full of dirty clothes and nothing else to my name.
And at that moment, I just, the desperation and loneliness and darkness that I was in, I called out to God verbally.
I said, God, just please help me, get me out of this.
And at that very moment, I felt a hand on my shoulder.
And I turned up and with tears in my eyes, I looked up and there's this nice older lady smiling at me and the sun's behind her and just for like, she asked me if I was okay and I told her no, I'm not okay.
And she told me how much I was loved and she told me how much of a good person I was and she could just tell that and I didn't see it in myself and
But she told me, she had been a prostitute and in a crack addict, and she's been 30 years sober.
And her husband was with her, and they were driving by.
And her husband had been an alcoholic and been sober for 30 years.
And they had been driving by and saw me walking to the road with just a pair of pants on and no shoes and no shirt.
And she told her husband, pull over right now, we need to talk to that kid.
That was the Holy Spirit talking to her.
She told me about the Teen Challenge, and she got me into Teen Challenge, and ever since then, everything's been different.
Both her and her husband were also graduates of Teen Challenge.
They meant works, they meant.
We're going to say in the next song, no longer slaves.
If you know what, join with us.
We are no longer slaves.
My fears are gone.
Good evening, church.
My name is Eve as you can probably hear in the background.
I normally have stage fright.
I got a team challenge with crippling stage fright, and I can honestly tell you God has taken that away from me tonight.
I'm not scared.
It's...
It blows me away.
But this is my 20th treatment.
I'm kind of sick of it.
But this treatment changed my life.
I got a brotherhood of guys back here that are there for me.
Pastor Rich Denine, the people at this program have completely changed my life.
When I got there, I was a hopeless drug addict.
I've been using since I was 13 years old.
I was raised with an alcoholic father and a mom who was sick when I was a kid with heart problems.
And she was told she had six months to live.
That's 22 years ago.
She's still alive today.
By the grace of God.
I can honestly tell you that the gift that this program has given me is life, because where I was headed was death for sure.
I met my fiancee five years ago.
It will be five years in November.
And by the grace of God, she needs a kidney and a pancreas transplant.
And that was not likely to happen in November when she has a year sober.
she will be put back on the active list, and will be receiving a kidney and pancreas transplant in the next six months.
That's when I believe God was real, and I wouldn't be here today if it wasn't for this program, and for God to come into my life.
Thank you.
You don't have a Patrick, come on down.
Patrick, give me a one-minute testimony.
You knew that, brother?
I'm Patrick.
My life was started out.
It was great.
My mom, me and my mom, I was only child.
My mom owned a restaurant.
When I was about eight, she was diagnosed with brain cancer, and they gave her six months to live.
But she ended up committing suicide, and I came home from school and found her.
But then they moved me to my aunts in Maple Grove.
And I was one of three black kids that went to my junior high, so I didn't really fit in.
And I didn't dress the way they dressed or do the things they did.
And so I did drugs, because those are the people that accepted me.
I started getting in trouble real bad out there, and I started shooting heroin.
I went from weed to shooting heroin at 14.
I did that for 22 years of my life, and I was in and out of prison, and I met my dad when I was 27, but me and him really didn't.
He wasn't my dad, and some day I could use for money.
But I ended up going to prison, and I kind of knew about
teen challenge from being in and out of teen challenge, and I mean in and out of jails and all that, but I never wanted to go, because it's 13 months, who wants to go through a 13 month treatment program, you know?
And I've been homeless for 15 years and I convinced myself that I wanted to do that.
And I just was, my distorted, my outlook on life was just so distorted, so
I finally ended up going, well, I didn't go on purpose.
God said, God told me, if you get there, I got you.
You just got to make it there.
So I've been here now for eight months and I'm doing great.
It's the longest time I've been sober.
We're going to sing the next song, Who You Say I Am, and we're brand new creations, aren't we, Teen Challenge?
Amen.
Who we say we are?
Okay, Jordan.
down.
You guys can go down.
I just want to thank your River Valley this morning or this evening for your support.
Just so you know, we serve anywhere from 850 to 900 individuals on any given day.
We're one of Minnesota's largest drug rehabilitation programs and you've got a little taste of it.
This is about 5% of the population that we're serving on any given day and we want you to know that
of a year-long program, which the majority of our residents are in.
The majority of them, I think 95% or 96% of them are not paying one penny out of pocket to be here.
We bring them in because of your support.
We usually ask how many of them, if they wouldn't come in the program, would be dead, and you'd find that probably the majority of the hands would go up.
This program is saving their life.
God bless you, River Valley.
This is real, and please take advantage of you.
We are looking for opportunity to serve.
We need you, and so God bless you.
We love you, folks.
Thank you.